#summary Instructions for getting and installing openIPAM.
#labels Documentation,Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Installation =

openIPAM is very modular and can work in any number of single-server or multi-server configurations. There are five major components: the openIPAM backend, the web frontend, the database server, the openDHCP server, and a PowerDNS server. It is completely up to you to decide where you would like to run each of these components. You could, technically, run all of them on the same server, but we recommend setting up openIPAM in a distributed manner.

openIPAM has been developed to run on Linux and has not been tested on any other platforms. Personally, we developed and are using it on Debian, but you are free to run it on your distribution of choice. We have done some testing on RedHat Enterprise Linux and it worked well (if you can get the right packages).

= Dependencies =

Some of the following instructions will be Debian-specific—you'll have to use your own distribution's package management.

First, add a user named "openipam" to your Linux install:
{{{
# adduser --home /usr/local/openipam --disabled-password --gecos "openIPAM User" openipam
}}}

Depending on what components you'd like to install on what servers, you will need the following packages:

== For the database server ==
To install the needed packages for the database server, run:
{{{
# apt-get install postgresql
}}}

== For the backend ==
To install the needed packages for the backend, run:
{{{
# apt-get install python-cherrypy3 python-ldap python-psycopg2 python-openssl python-sqlalchemy python-ipy python-cjson
}}}

== For the web interface ==
To install the needed packages for the web interface, run:
{{{
# apt-get install python-cherrypy3 python-openssl python-cheetah python-ipy python-cjson
}}}

== For the openDHCP server ==
To install the needed packages for the openDHCP server, run:
{{{
# apt-get install python-processing python-psycopg2 python-sqlalchemy
}}}

== For the PowerDNS server ==
To install the needed packages for the PowerDNS server, run:
{{{
apt-get install pdns-server pdns-backend-pgsql postgresql
}}}

== For SSL on the backend and web interface ==
Depending on your environment, a certificate signed by a trusted CA should be used on the production system. For testing and development purposes, however, you can install the `ssl-cert` package and Debian will create a self-signed cert for the host. To make it convenient for development and testing, the configuration files are made to use this self-signed cert by default. If you would like to do this, run the following on both your backend server and your web frontend server:
{{{
# apt-get install  ssl-cert
# adduser openipam ssl-cert
}}}

= Download and configure openIPAM =

Then, create the download directory and become the `openipam` user to download the code:
{{{
# su - openipam
$ svn checkout http://openipam.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ .
}}}

Now, you can set up the configuration files for openIPAM. There is an example folder name `openipam_config.example`. You can copy this directory to `openipam_config` and modify the configuration:
{{{
$ cd openIPAM/
$ cp -r openipam_config.example/ openipam_config
$ rm -rf openipam_config/.svn
}}}

If you're going to use the default configuration, you'll need to create and change ownership of a couple directories:
{{{
# mkdir -p /var/lib/openipam/sessions/backend
# mkdir -p /var/log/openipam/backend
# mkdir -p /var/lib/openipam/sessions/web
# mkdir -p /var/log/openipam/web
# chown -R openipam /var/lib/openipam /var/log/openipam
}}}

Now, depending on what processes you are running on which server(s), you'll need to edit the `openipam_config/backend.py` and `openipam_config/auth.py` file for the backend to work, and `openipam_config/frontend.py` for the web interface to work.  If you have certificate signed by a trusted CA, you can reference it under the `SSL` section in backend and frontend config files as well.

== Setting up database server ==
{{{
# su - postgres
$ createuser openipam
Shall the new role be a superuser? (y/n) n
Shall the new role be allowed to create databases? (y/n) n
Shall the new role be allowed to create more new roles? (y/n) n
$ createdb -O openipam openipam
$ psql
postgres=# \password openipam
Enter new password:
Enter it again:
postgres=# \q
$ logout
}}}

Now, to actually create the openIPAM database structure, run:
{{{
# su - openipam
$ psql -d openipam -f openIPAM/sql/openipam_schema.sql

... lots of CREATE TABLE messages ...

$ logout
}}}

Make sure there are no ERROR: messages in the output. If not, then the database schema was created successfully.

== !CherryPy Patch until 3.1.0 ==

Until the next release of !CherryPy, you'll need to apply [http://www.cherrypy.org/changeset/2015 this patch] manually:

{{{
# cd /usr/share/python-support/python-cherrypy3/
# patch -p 1
}}}

Then, copy and paste the following code into your terminal and then press Control-D:

{{{
Index: trunk/cherrypy/lib/xmlrpc.py
===================================================================
--- trunk/cherrypy/lib/xmlrpc.py (revision 1955)
+++ trunk/cherrypy/lib/xmlrpc.py (revision 2015)
@@ -43,5 +43,5 @@
                                   allow_none=allow_none))
 
-def on_error():
+def on_error(*args, **kwargs):
     body = str(sys.exc_info()[1])
     import xmlrpclib
Index: trunk/cherrypy/test/test_xmlrpc.py
===================================================================
--- trunk/cherrypy/test/test_xmlrpc.py (revision 1955)
+++ trunk/cherrypy/test/test_xmlrpc.py (revision 2015)
@@ -69,4 +69,5 @@
     cherrypy.tree.mount(root, config={'/': {
         'request.dispatch': cherrypy.dispatch.XMLRPCDispatcher(),
+        'tools.xmlrpc.allow_none': 0,
         }})
     cherrypy.config.update({'environment': 'test_suite'})
}}}

== Setting up the `admin` user ==

Almost there! Until we write a setup script (`*`ducks`*`), you could run the following to set the administrator password to `password` (that hex string below is just a SHA512 hash, so you can change the password to whatever else you want):
{{{
# su - openipam
$ psql -d openipam
openipam=# INSERT INTO internal_auth (id, hash, name)
VALUES (1, 'b109f3bbbc244eb82441917ed06d618b9008dd09b3befd1b5e07394c706a8bb980b1d7785e5976ec049b46df5f1326af5a2ea6d103fd07c95385ffab0cacbc86', 'Administrator');
}}}

= Starting the server =

WRITEME